New York Giants defensive end Oh see you
menorah is one of a growing list of NFL
players from Nigeria or born elsewhere
to Nigerian parents one of the best
players in the NFL this decade he grew
up in London moved to Nigeria at age
seven then to the u.s. at age fourteen
humanure thinks the NFL should keep a
closer eye on American college players
with Nigerian roots he played college
football at Troy University in Alabama
the list is ridiculous if I could name
at least 12 to 13 people who I know if
personally of Nigerian descent in the
NFL right now he had to then Brian Iraq
though of the Washington Redskins is in
his rookie season the budding NFL star
was born to Nigerian parents in Houston
Texas and grew up there
he later excelled on the football field
at the University of Texas Iraq bo takes
enormous pride in belonging to a
Nigerian fraternity in the NFL that is
some type of kinship that you have a
brother you have between each other
because we have to come from the same
background the same family tradition and
everything that goes around that so
that's how everybody reached out to each
other and quarter and sort of like great
they're like Brotherhood you know that
we have to you know stick together and
you just have a little fun with them
while we manifest human you're and Iraq
boasts a Nigerians are physically
well-suited for the NFL particularly on
defense where speed agility power and
size are needed at multiple positions
impact players on defense include
linemen a mobile Koya of the Euston
Texans Victor Abbi Amiri of the
Philadelphia Eagles and cornerback
Nnamdi Asomugha and linebacker Isiah at
kasuba
of the Oakland Raiders you mean Yura
says the best athletes in the world are
from Nigeria where soccer is the
national sport and basketball and
sprinting are very popular but where
American football hasn't caught on Iraq
beau says the athletic talent of
Nigerians as he put it is likely in the
genes we have a lot of you know
explosiveness about it so I see as a
defensive end in some other positions
they really have to use your eyes
your explosiveness all the time to
really be a be a great football player
we always have the same physique to to
get bigger and faster and stuff and
really help our game to be a great play
Redskins coach Jim Zorn on why Nigeria
is the source of much NFL talent I think
those families are bringing up strong
men and strong men play football in
recent years a foundation run by
Nigerian born a mobile Koya of the
Texans has organized trips to Nigeria
for fellow NFL players this year's trip
videotaped by the NFL Network included
Akoya and defensive lineman Israel
Idonije Adewale a gunday and Tommie
Harris of the Chicago Bears while their
players embraced the African culture
taught American football to kids who
know little about the game and
distributed college scholarships and
medical supplies you mean Yura is a
partner in a coiours foundation and says
such visits send a message of hope to
Nigerians a lot of Africans in general
you know once they're born into poverty
or they're born into into a desolate
situations they don't really have an
opportunity to pull themselves out of it
so the more people who have pulled
themselves out of it and come back and
give back and try to help those people I
think the better off is better off the
countries don't be the first Nigerian
star in the NFL running back Christian
Okoye played for the Kansas City Chiefs
from 1985 to 1990 he laid the groundwork
for a long line of NFL talent from a
country and ocean apart from where the
game is playing Mike Richman VOA news
Washington